Previously on
"The Watchful Eye"...
Elena: Otis Winthrop,
Tory, Dick,
they're all gonna be there.
I'm going to find out
who's threatening us.
Dick: A seat on the board?
This is exactly what we wanted.
I'm gonna be
a real Greybourne.
Where's Dick?
I don't know.
Every time you interfere,
things get worse.
I love you, okay?
I just--
I want this to be over.
Then we're over.
It's over.
Can this be
our little secret?
Throwing away the key.
Roman: Maybe we should
just tell her.
Roman and I have only hooked up
a couple of times.
Sorry.
I'm done.
I just got a text
from you.
Someone took my phone.
I'm telling you.
Elena, who are you?
[ Horns honking ]
[ Elevator bell dings ]
Hey.
What do you want?
Well, I'm sorry,
but I had to do that.
You get that, right?
You know you can stop
after "I'm sorry."
You were gonna tell Bennet everything.
You were gonna get us
completely busted.
No, I wasn't.
But whatever.
I don't want to talk right now.
Go find someone else
to use.
Are you positive
you checked everywhere
in Ms. Ivey's?
Yes.
You're unbelievable, dude.
All you care about
is getting what you want.
How can you say that?
I'm doing this for us.
For us?
This mission of yours
is a lost cause.
The ruby's not in that
old lady's apartment, and, yes,
I checked everywhere, short of
prying up the floorboards,
and, no, I'm not going back
in there for anything.
I didn't ask you to.
How am I supposed to help you
if I'm in jail
for breaking
and entering, hmm?
But you don't care,
'cause you're a shitty friend.
I'm a good friend that got
backed up into a shitty corner
because you couldn't keep it
in your pants
long enough for us
to find the thing.
Get it through your head.
The ruby's not in there.
We're not giving up.
"We" aren't doing anything.
Then why stay
at the Greybourne?
What do you care?
Yes, ma'am,
how can I help you?
Woman: Hey. Yes...
♪
Matthew: Elena?
Hello?
Hey.
Where'd you go there?
Uh, sorry.
Anyway, you were saying?
Uh, dinner.
Dinner?
Yeah.
I can get you
a gift certificate.
You can take a friend.
Oh. No.
You don't have to do that.
No, I know I don't,
but...
Look, this is the happiest
I've seen Jasper since, um...
Anyway, I just--
I just want to say thank you.
I'll think about it.
Great.
Enjoy your day off.
Yeah.
[ Knock on door ]
Hi, Elena.
Can I help you?
Is Dr. Ayres home?
Uh, no, he's golfing
with his awful cousin
in Quogue.
The Hamptons.
Yeah, I know
where Quogue is.
What did you need
from him?
I was talking to him about
my plantar fasciitis,
and he said
it wasn't his area,
but that he would recommend
a specialist,
and it's glamorous,
I know.
Do you know
when he'll be back?
I-I am not sure,
but I will let him know
you stopped by.
♪
[ Siren chirps in distance ]
Hey.
So, this is
what's happening now?
You're just leaving?
Great. Why?
Is this because I crashed
the party? I mean, come on.
You could've
gotten yourself killed.
Yeah, well, Dick Ayres
never came home from that gala.
I put an air tag
in Tory's purse,
so I know
that she's been back
at the Greybourne
Social House
four times this week.
Winthrop's offices
are there.
They're obviously
working together.
I think
they had Dick killed.
Oh, c--
Okay, come-- Why?
Just ask yourself, why would
she kill her own husband?
'Cause she wants him
out of the way,
because she wants me
out of the way.
These people don't care.
If they'd stoop low enough
to threaten my brother,
what's to stop them
from tossing Dick
into the East River?
Okay, I don't know
what else to do.
Start by finding out
where Dick Ayres is.
No, I mean... I don't know
what else to do about us.
Nothing.
Once we find the ruby,
that's gonna be it.
♪
Hey, just...
You hold onto 'em.
I trust you.
Maybe you shouldn't.
[ Door opens, closes ]
Hi.
How about the Greybourne
Social House?
For dinner.
Best espresso martinis in town,
according to Yelp,
and I didn't get
to try any at the gala.
Uh, yeah. Sure.
I mean,
it's a private club.
You need to be
with a member to get in.
Well, good thing
I know one.
And I won't have
to be incognito.
Mm. We can show
our actual faces.
8:00?
You're on.
♪
[ Door opens ]
[ Door closes ]
♪
What is this?
Sushi and spa night.
What do you think?
I-I got cozy new robes
for us,
some hydrating face masks,
takeout from Nobu.
I got peeky toe crab
for you.
I know
it's your favorite.
Yeah, I would rather lobotomize
myself with a Jimmy Choo.
[ Chuckles awkwardly ]
When's my dad
getting back?
I'm not sure.
You know your father.
He's unreachable
on "the links."
Interesting. Yeah,
his clubs are in the closet.
Well, he's probably
using the extra set
he keeps in Quogue.
Yeah, sure.
Whatever you want
to tell yourself
so you can sleep at night.
Where are you going?
To get my ski parka
from the attic.
Delphine invited me to go
snowboarding with her family
in Portillo.
Portillo is in Chile.
You can't go to Chile.
You can't tell me
what to do.
[ Door opens ]
[ Knock on door ]
Come in.
Hey!
Happy Going Away
For Now.
Thank you.
I can't wait for three weeks
of "Sound of Music" cosplay
with the world's
loudest twins.
Oof.
Am I the first one here?
I told Alex and James
to come at 7:00.
I figured we could
pregame first.
Cool.
What about Elena?
I didn't invite her.
Wine?
Sure.
Uh, did you not invite her
for a reason?
Mm, nothing I feel
like getting into.
I'm done trying
to change people.
You can only
change yourself.
Look at you,
setting healthy boundaries.
I try.
I'm proud.
Thank you.
To good decisions?
To pre-gaming.
Roman, how many times
must I tell you?
The basement door
remains shut.
Always.
Never propped open.
I didn't leave it open.
It's open right now.
Please make sure it's closed
and keep it that way.
Yes, sir.
It wasn't me!
[ Door opens ]
[ Door closes ]
[ Elevator bell dings ]
♪
Knock, knock. Who's there?
Sure. Come on in.
You can't keep snooping
around the building,
leaving doors open
all over the place, okay?
What are you talking about?
The basement?
I wasn't in the basement.
Well, someone
left the door open,
and Cecil just gave me
shit about it.
So, you're the only one
who would've done that.
Okay, Roman, I just said
I wasn't in the basement.
You said people are in
and out all the time,
so maybe Cecil's looking
for someone to blame.
Where you going?
Dinner.
Where?
Greybourne Social House.
Matthew's taking me.
Your boss is taking you
to dinner?
So?
I thought we weren't supposed
to get involved with tenants.
I'm not involved
with him.
I've been tracking Tory
all week,
and that's where
she's been going,
and she's involved
in all of this. Okay?
You need a member
to get in.
And Matthew just happens
to be a member?
[ Scoffs ]
♪
What is this,
a Holiday Inn?
♪ We ain't got time for that ♪
♪ Free your mind, catch a vibe
or just hang on back ♪
♪ I'm in the back, all black ♪
with the world cap ♪
♪ No cap over seas,
with sum slimey cats ♪
Uh, hold the elevator, please.
♪ Keep hella herbs
in my travel pack ♪
♪ Racks on racks,
Eye need of all that ♪
No.
Wait, wait!
Close one, huh?
This is where
you're staying?
Yeah, it's their smallest
vacation property.
Um, it's a castle.
Oh, it's a schloss.
Oh.
Mm-hmm.
They're really slumming it
this time.
Who knows.
Maybe I won't even come home.
Eh, if I were you,
I'd definitely stay.
America's starting to look
pretty bleak at this point.
Okay?
[ Both laughing ]
I don't know.
Hmm?
There are a couple things here
I may miss.
♪
[ Electricity powers down ]
Elena:
[ Gasps ] Oh, my God.
Bennet, you scared me.
Well, isn't this déjà vu?
We told you.
It's over. Right.
Because you've moved on
to Matthew.
Excuse me?
You heard me.
Or I heard you.
♪
Uh, pro tip--
if the power's out,
the elevator
isn't going to work.
Doesn't hurt to try.
Could be on a backup generator
or something.
I need to get downstairs.
Bennet, where are
the fire stairs?
There are none.
Huh?
How is that legal?
It's a storage floor.
But they were built
as servants' quarters,
so what would the servants do
if there was a fire?
Just burn?
How very Triangle Shirtwaist
Factory of them.
Look, I know there are stairs
you can access from the roof,
but they're rusty
and I don't think they go
all the way down
to the street.
Cool.
So, we just have to jump
3 stories instead of 12.
Roman,
is Cecil downstairs?
No, I'm the only doorman
on duty.
Uh, why are you
up here then?
I was just bringing
a package to Elena.
Kim: Okay, should we call
the fire department?
Bennet: No, there's no fire.
What are they gonna do?
Okay, everyone,
calm down.
I'm sure the power will be
back on soon, okay?
It's probably just some fuse
that shorted out
because everyone's
running their A. C.
Everything will be back
to normal soon,
and we can all go
about our business.
Hey, we should light
some candles in your room
and preserve
the battery on our phones.
I'll come with you.
Sure.
Safety in numbers.
Mm-hmm.
♪
[ Text swipes ]
There's a way out.
No.
We're not telling them
about the stairs.
They're suspicious
enough already.
♪
[ Elena and Roman arguing
indistinctly ]
Elena: Oh, yeah?
Well, who told you
that Matthew and I are--
Roman: Why can't we just
tell them we found it?
No. The lights will be
on any time, okay?
Dude, if Cecil finds--
Hey, you guys wanna
come join us?
It's a tight squeeze,
but at least there's light.
♪
Roman: I feel like it's my duty
to point out
this is a fire hazard.
The entire attic
is a fire hazard.
Yeah, all these candles
do make me feel like
I'm in
a Jane Austen novel.
We should have a seance.
A seance?
Are you 12?
Come on.
The lights are off,
the candles are lit.
We know you've seen
a lot of ghosts up here.
Okay, has anyone here
ever seen a horror film?
That is how they all start.
And then whoever had sex most
recently gets brutally murdered.
I think we might have a Ouija
board in the storage closet.
I can go grab it.
Yeah, I'm with Ginny
on this one.
I've seen that movie before,
and it does not end well.
Kim: We cleansed the attic
with palo santo.
There's nothing
malevolent left.
Ginny: I don't know
about that.
What's up?
See that?
The streetlights are on.
There's power everywhere else
except for the Greybourne.
Where did you say
the breakers were?
In the basement.
Where the door
was left open.
You think someone
shut off the power?
And trapped us in an attic
we can't get out of.
[ Knock on door ]
Hey.
It's you.
It's me...
and enough sushi
to feed a polar bear.
It's all gonna spoil
if the power doesn't
come back on soon.
And, um,
I'm not a huge fan
of being alone
in the dark.
Yeah.
No.
Uh, how many polar bears
were you expecting?
I ordered it
for me and Bennet.
I planned this whole spa night,
but she acted like
I asked her
to drink bleach,
and, frankly,
I don't have any fight
left in me.
Watch it.
Where's Jasper?
Oh, uh, he's at Cassie's
tonight.
Oh.
Wait, you--
you had plans, didn't you?
It's probably gonna get
canceled because of--
I just assumed
with the power out--
What I meant to say is...
I don't want to impose.
No, I thought the power would
be up and running by now,
and if it doesn't
come on tonight,
we're probably gonna bail
on those plans anyway.
So, you and your sushi
are welcome to hang with me.
Ooh, what is this?
Kampachi?
Where is that doorman?
Uh, maybe he's busy
trying to get
the power back on.
Oh.
I'm Alex, by the way.
And this is James.
Good for you.
And you are?
Tired
of this conversation.
But if an answer will bring it
to a swift conclusion,
I'm Charlotte
Greybourne Ivey.
Did you text Ginny
to tell her
that we're stuck
in here?
What?
Oh, no.
This is just...
Nothing.
Are you seeing
other people?
Well, yeah.
Are you not?
Oh.
Sorry, we just never had
a conversation about it.
I'm seeing a few other people.
Smart.
A girl like you should
keep her options open.
I'm not a girl,
but thanks.
So, like,
how many is a few?
Found it.
Enjoy.
Wait, you're leaving?
Yeah.
Don't want to be a fifth wheel.
What?
What should we ask it?
Let's ask it how long
we're gonna get stuck up here.
You guys,
this is a bad idea.
I have enough issues
with ghosts appearing
out of nowhere.
I don't need
to invite them in.
Well, maybe if we ask them
what they want with you,
they'll stop
appearing out of nowhere.
Maybe
they want the truth.
I don't think
they want anything.
I think we should figure out
how to get out of here,
'cause it's getting hot.
[ Cellphone dings ]
[ Cellphone chimes ]
♪
I need some air.
I'm gonna...
figure out what that was.
I found Teo playing
with one of these
after Dad died.
Was he trying
to talk to him?
I think he was just looking
for answers.
He never got any, though.
Sometimes, no answer
is an answer.
Like, maybe they crossed
over to the other side.
They're at peace.
You believe in all that?
I don't know.
You're the one
talking to ghosts.
I swear, Roman,
if I find this ruby,
I'm gonna lose it.
Why don't we ask Jocelyn
where the ruby is?
[ Laughs ]
I mean, we've exhausted
all other options, right?
What do we got to lose?
♪
This is stupid.
I mean, what are we
supposed to say?
Hey, spirits,
if you're out there,
Jocelyn, specifically,
where did your boyfriend
hide the ruby?
She's not gonna answer you
if you don't ask respectfully.
[ Laughs ]
Was that you?
No.
Both: P-E-T.
What does that mean?
I don't know.
S-H-T.
I think we should
write this down.
X-I-S.
[ Gasps ]
What is it?
What?
[ Gasps ]
Elena: Pen and a paper.
Hey, did you just blow
out my candles?
No.
But sorry!
♪
Okay.
P-E-T.
S-H-T.
X-I-S.
It's like
a coded message.
Or a password
to a safe.
What?
Where?
We keep getting
more questions,
and I'm running
out of time.
Alright, dude, I'm just
trying to help, okay?
Well, unless you're
a professional codebreaker,
I don't know
how you're gonna help.
Alright. Fine.
I'll just leave.
Does that help?
[ Door slams ]
Do you think
Elena and Roman
are, like, extra close?
What, like,
they're hooking up?
I don't know. Maybe.
I mean, he did
"bring her a package."
God,
it's so hot in here.
I'm burning up.
Ow.
Oh. Are you okay?
Yeah. No, I'm just--
I'm an idiot.
Let me see that.
Better?
Yeah.
♪ What kind of love is this? ♪
[ Knock on door ]
Can you turn that off, please?
What do you want?
To say sorry.
Hmm.
Sorry for what?
For sleeping with me
when you have a girlfriend?
Elena isn't my girlfriend.
Right, because now
she's going after Matthew.
So, she dumped you
for the rich guy,
and I was the rebound.
What a beautiful story.
Look, Bennet, I don't know
anything about that.
And I have no idea
how this all got so messed up.
The truth is that I was
coming up here
that night
to end things with Elena.
And you didn't think
to do that
before you had sex
with me?
Yeah.
I mean, no, I did--
[ Sighs ]
Look, I didn't even know that
being with you was possible.
I literally stand
at the front desk all day,
just waiting for you
to come to the door.
Well, it's the job
of a doorman, so...
Sorry.
Go on.
I've never felt this way
about anyone,
and I'm terrified
that I messed it up.
I know
you deserve better,
and I want
to give that to you.
I-I want to be better.
♪
Alligator.
Matthew: Oh, no. I'm sorry.
That is a crocodile.
You lose.
I should at least
get partial credit.
Oh, no, no.
You get no credit,
because clearly, you can see
the, uh,
the V-shaped snout.
Mm.
So, how are things going
with you and Dick?
You know Dick.
It'd be the zombie apocalypse,
and he'd find his way
to the ninth hole.
Tory, it's me.
You can tell me
the truth.
Hmm.
The truth?
That's a concept.
I don't think Dick and I
have ever
told each other the truth.
We're fine, really.
It's just a little
bumpy air.
[ Cellphone chimes ]
♪
Who's that?
Ah, no.
No one.
Have you ever dated
a non-binary person?
No.
Okay, well, not to be
too on-the-nose
or mansplain-y,
but I just want to make sure
you understand
I'm not a woman.
Alright, I-I-- Sure,
most days, I dress feminine,
but that expression
is just that--
an expression,
not a gender.
And even though
we may look like a cis,
hetero couple,
we're not.
Okay.
So, if I'm with you, I'm not
considered straight anymore.
I can't tell you
what you are, James.
That's something you have
to figure for yourself.
You should listen
to Alex.
This person knows
what they're talking about.
Don't look so shocked.
I went to Vassar.
Pour me a drink, James,
since we all seem
to be living
in this elevator now.
Okay.
Yes.
It takes courage
to live a life
others don't understand, Alex.
When I was young,
you could not deviate
from what
was expected of you.
My mother
was so controlling,
she dyed my hair brown
as a child
because my natural red hair
was a sign of the devil.
I bet the red
suited you.
It did.
Half the Rolling Stones
thought so, too.
The Rolling Stones?
Like the band?
The '60s and '70s
in New York were a blast.
Studio,
Maxwell's Plum.
Okay, we need a selfie.
[ Camera shutter clicks ]
Got it.
I wish my life was half
as interesting as yours.
Oh, the grass
is always greener.
Sure, I was the queen
of the disco,
but I never surfed
Tamarama Beach.
What's
Tamarama Beach?
It's a beach
in Australia.
I grew up surfing there.
Oh.
[ Cellphone chimes ]
Rome?
Rome, where are you?
What's up?
Look.
Who's Rod Stewart?
I don't think
we're safe here.
If Ms. Ivey is
in the elevator,
we can use the staircase
to get through the apartment.
Guys, come!
Elena found a way out!
[ Creaking ]
Bennet: Yeah, I'm not
going down there.
Elena: Come on.
We have to.
Maybe this leads to an apartment
on the 12th floor.
Watch your head.
It's Mrs. Ivey's.
Is it weird that she has
a secret dungeon?
Ginny: I do not mess
with Mrs. Ivey.
Come on.
Yeah, we probably shouldn't
mention that we saw this
or that we used it
or that we were
in her apartment.
Yeah, um, I wanna live
to see tomorrow.
♪
You coming?
I forgot something upstairs.
I'll meet you down there.
[ Jocelyn crying ]
Jocelyn?
♪
[ Stair creaks ]
[ Creaks ]
♪
"Sixth step."
[ Gasps ] Jocelyn.
Aah!
Jocelyn!
No!
What's wrong?!
Jocelyn!
♪
Elena: "Dear Jocelyn..."
"All my love, Alistair."
♪
No.
Mrs. Ivey: So, I told him,
I'm not interested
in anything serious,
and he cried.
The whole party could hear him
blubbering from the next room.
Wow.
To have been a fly
on the wall
while you break
Rex Harrison's heart.
I'm sure you've been
to some great parties.
I can spot someone
with real style a mile away.
Thanks.
Okay, we did sneak
into the Save New York gala
next week.
We?
Mm-hmm.
Ginny, Elena, and I.
Oh, the chicken Kiev--
who made that?
Chef's kiss.
So good.
Oh.
The power's on.
Thank God.
Thank you for
an interesting evening.
I hope never
to repeat it.
[ Elevator bell dings ]
♪
[ Door opens ]
[ Gasps ]
♪
[ Pounding lightly, grunting ]
I can't believe the stairs
are right next to my room.
Yeah, this place is straight out
of a horror movie.
[ Indistinct conversation ]
There's Alex.
Oh, my God. I thought
I'd never see you again.
We are lucky to be alive
right now.
Okay, don't need to be
so dramatic.
You drunk?
Little drunky?
No.
We were stuck
in an elevator
the whole time
with Mrs. Ivey.
Mrs. Ivey.
Yeah, so we cracked into the
pregame alcohol a little bit.
Mezcal.
Oh, yeah, you are lucky
to be alive.
And I'm gonna take Alex
to a diner to sober up a little.
Diner?
No, I'm gonna hang out
for a little bit.
Go get some food.
Future Alex
will thank you.
I do want Future Me
to be happy.
Everybody does.
Okay.
Let's go.
I guess you have to be up early
to jet off to Europe.
Yes. I still have to go pack
all my lederhosen.
I know it's
a few weeks away,
but when I get back,
can I take you on a date?
Sure.
Yeah, yeah.
Uh, you know, unless you meet
some fetching milk maid
and marry her
for Swiss citizenship.
I'm lactose intolerant,
so it's not really
gonna work for me.
Mm.
Give my best
to your new Swiss wife.
Mm. She's so excited
to meet you.
♪
Help.
Could you open the door?
[ Brahms' "Lullaby"
playing on piano ]
Please, open the door!
[ Pounding on wall ]
Please! Please!
Please open the door!
Please don't leave me in here.
[ Cries ]
Please.
[ Panting ]
♪
Please.
[ Brahms' "Lullaby"
continues on piano ]
[ Door creaking ]
Help me.
I got stuck.
Who's Roman to you?
Roman's the doorman.
Maybe my question wasn't clear
the first time I asked,
so I'll try again.
Who is Roman to you?
He's my best friend.
You've known him
two weeks.
I've known him
my whole life.
I put him up for the job.
Ginny, my dad is dead
because of the Greybournes.
They killed your dad?
They screwed over my family
and Roman's, too.
They torched
our entire block
and then bought the land
for pennies.
We lost everything.
My dad took
his own life.
♪
So, you two are here
to do what?
Take down the Greybournes?
They have to pay
for what they did.
And that's all I can tell you,
for your own safety.
Are you serious?
That ship has sailed.
These texts
are freaking me out.
Look, I never wanted anyone else
to get involved.
Thanks to you, Elena,
I am now very much involved.
You are in
so far over your own head,
and you don't even
know it.
♪
[ Sighs ]
[ Panting ]
♪
[ Dishes clattering ]
Hi.
You escaped the attic.
Yeah, I was worried
you were gonna melt.
No.
We were fine.
It was--
It wasn't that hot.
I-I know it's late,
but there's still time to go
to dinner if...
Tory: Elena.
Tory.
Hi.
Uh, I was gonna take
Elena out for dinner.
Oh.
Just the two of you?
Oh, it was just like a...
Funny you didn't
mention that earlier.
Hmm. Just to thank her for being
so great with Jasper.
Unfortunately, Tory and I
ate all this sushi,
so I think we're gonna
have to take a rain check.
Uh, maybe a blackout check.
No, yeah. Totally.
Sure.
Tory, how's Dick's
golfing trip going?
Oh.
I try not to get too involved
in his boys' trips.
What happens
in Quogue...
I'd offer you some wine,
but you must be exhausted.
Sounds like
a rough night.
Yeah.
I should charge
my phone anyways.
[ Elevator bell dings ]
Cecil: Do you know what I think
when my phone rings
in the middle of the night?
I think somebody's dead.
Roman: Yes, sir.
I understand.
Do you think I like
having to come here
in the middle of the night
to fix your mistakes?
I'm calling the union
first thing.
Hey, Cecil, it was my fault.
Roman was helping me--
Ms. Santos,
I'm not in the mood
to hear your excuses tonight.
Oh, okay.
I understand.
Maybe Candace would like
to hear my excuses.
I'll call her right up.
You think her husband
is home?
Don't let it
happen again.
If I ever see that desk empty
on your watch again,
you're gone.
♪
You're terrifying.
Yeah.
Hey, I can talk
to Bennet...
[speaks Spanish]
Try and smooth
things over?
No.
Please don't.
You've already
done enough.
We're all good now.
But just so you know,
cover story-wide,
we had a stupid fling and it
never meant anything to me.
We'll always have Paris.
But on a serious note,
we're equals now, okay?
I'm done
being your lapdog.
Deal.
I think you were right,
about the power outage.
It wasn't an accident.
I went down,
I checked the breaker box,
and it was all messed up.
The cameras are out, too,
so... it was planned.
♪
[ Cellphone dings ]
[ Ringing ]
Hello?
Scott: Hey, where you been?
Looks like you were right.
About?
Your friend Dick Ayres--
he's definitely
not on a golf trip.
I looked into his recent
card charges-- nothing.
Not a thing since the day
of the gala.
Then I saw his joint
bank account with Tory
was emptied out, by Tory.
[ Elevator bell dings ]
Tory.
Are you coming on?
♪
[ Bell rings ]
Otis, please tell me
where my husband is.
I don't know what
you're talking about.
Your husband is at home,
safe and sound.
[ Bell rings ]
♪
[ Dick moaning ]
Oh, Dick!
♪
Aah!
Oh!
You might be right
about Tory.
[ Knock on door ]
Hey, I gotta go.
Someone's at the door.
I'll give you
a call back.
You're Detective Macedo, right?
♪
Ruby Greybourne.